# Contributing to this project

Whenever you make a contribution of Content to this repository, you license that Content under the license terms given in this repository, and you agree that you have the right to license that Content under those terms. You agree that the Content follows the requirements documented in this repository, including those given in this file.

## AI contributions

Contributions must not include content generated by large language models or other probabilistic tools, including but not limited to Copilot or ChatGPT. This policy covers code, documentation, pull requests, issues, comments, and any other contributions to this project.

Our rationale is as follows:

1. Maintainer burden: Reviewers depend on contributors to write and test their code before submitting it. These tools make it easy to generate large amounts of plausible-looking code that the contributor does not understand, is often untested, and does not function properly. This is a drain on the (already limited) time and energy of our reviewers.

2. Correctness and security: Even when code generated by AI tools does seem to function, there is no guarantee that it is correct, and no indication of what security implications it may have. All code must take into account potential security issues. Contributors play a large role in considering these issues when creating contributions, something that we cannot trust an AI tool to do.

3. Copyright issues: Publicly available models are trained on copyrighted content, both accidentally and intentionally, and their output often includes that content verbatim. Since the legality of this is uncertain, these contributions may violate the licenses of copyrighted works.

4. Ethical issues: AI tools require an unreasonable amount of energy and water to build and operate, their models are built with heavily exploited workers in unacceptable working conditions, and they are being used to undermine labor and justify layoffs. These are harms that we do not want to perpetuate, even if only indirectly.

Note that aside from generating code or other contributions, AI tools can sometimes answer questions, but we’ve found that these answers are often incorrect or very misleading.

In general, do not assume that AI tools are a source of truth regarding how this project works. Consider reading human-generated documentation or asking a human instead.

### References

- Thanks to the [AI Contributions section](https://book.servo.org/contributing.html#ai-contributions) of the Servo Book for the basis of our [AI Contributions](#ai-contributions) section.
